there are parts of Spain where given the
choice they would like to make time go
backwards a small town in Andalusia a
horse phone if antique lace and dressage
could solve things it will be all right
but they can't the regional government
is effectively bust and needs a billion
euros immediately unemployment here
stands at thirty-four percent and rising
and even the comfortably off are
surrounded by an atmosphere of rising
protest last month the agricultural
workers union began raiding supermarkets
and taking away food without paying the
food is given to the unemployed the
figurehead of this new movement a local
mayor Sanchez Gordillo the name and the
beard instantly famous now Gordillo and
his comrades are on the march stirring
up protest from town to town and the
watchful eye of the police determined to
stop the austerity everybody knows is
about to hit for nearly a month now the
agricultural workers have been marching
from turn to turn here in Andalusia as
with a lot of the things they do there's
an element of symbolism to this but
things in Spain are about to get deadly
serious as small farming tones echoing
rhetoric and marching feet it's clear
that the Spanish crisis and the way it
is resolved will define Europe okay
either fire or dry up another year is
necessary not be Europe of the people
not the Europe of the ones you don't
have anything the unemployed the poor
people who demand a new reality people
who don't have anything
andalusia is spectacular but
spectacularly poor the regional
government had tried to soften the
spending cuts demanded by Madrid but now
it needs a bailout and I'll have to pile
further job cuts and spending cuts or to
those already made everybody here feels
a crunch is coming okay no ha SE cambia
imagine what we want to see change what
makes a smart he's criticizing the
general sacking of workers the fact that
many people are losing their homes and
many people can't afford to buy food
that is why we're fighting and reaching
out to all parts of society y la gente
no quieren que hablemos de la prima
duryea people don't want to hear about
freedom risk born and spay lemarchal or
urethane bank people want to talk about
the cost of a bottle of gas petrol
valley lettuce your mortgages work
expectations then they want to talk
about their problem that is what we do
your friend up out of real in madrid
they know today's moved by the ECB opens
the way for Spain's debts to be brought
up on a massive scale removing the
constant threat of imminent default but
it's dependent on conditions and the
conditions will be set in a struggle
between these two Lee Angela Merkel who
need Spain to accept more austerity than
the 65 billion already unleashed to
appease German voters and Spanish p.m.
Mariano Rajoy who still couldn't bring
himself to ask the bailout Brussels has
just offered elitches tremendous barrier
reef areas on the priorities of the
Spanish government right now and to
create jobs the first priority is that
we have to continue on the path of
cutting the deficit the next is to
continue the structural reforms then
rebuild the banking sector and in the
next few weeks we will have more detail
on changes to the banking sector but
even if the Spanish people do accept the
conditions say pundits here the whole
process has created cranks in the
political system that look dangerous
a un problema de perdida deck ready we
need a veil a classic there is a problem
with the loss of credibility I got a
political class in Spain that doesn't
mean that eight months into the
government the high will pay the price
they have to be closer to the people to
know what's going on in the street cut
spending in a more effective and
transparent way myself you have to
tighten their belts and there are large
numbers of people especially among the
young who intend to prove that wrong in
Madrid tonight the indignados of the
Spanish occupy movement gave a foretaste
of the anger that will greet any bailout
deal and it won't only be the radicals
with Spain's regions going bust one by
one this month is set to see huge
protests of a budget post organized by
nationalists the fear is as in Greece
that this unites the left and right in
opposition to the last-ditch rescue plan
of the political center technically the
strikes and demonstrations of the past
two years have achieved nothing but
throughout that time the Spanish
government successive governments about
you insist Spain will never go to the EU
for a
they have to for many of the people here
this is all the air at the start of the
fighting against austerity
Oh
back in Andalusia mayor go do is about
to find out whether rhetoric and civil
disobedience can stop the Spanish
government the bond market and the ECB
the tone he runs is famous as a
self-proclaimed left-wing utopia farmers
here fought for and won control of the
land in the 1990s they built their own
houses there was no property boom and no
bust the town of Marina leady symbolizes
one part of the dream that many
Spaniards bought the social Europe
coexisting with the old conservative
traditions the Spanish press has
compared gordillo to Robin Hood he
himself prefers the Scottish rebel
William Wallace did yoga failed attempt
about evolutionary oh so I think he was
a true revolutionary he came from the
lower class and fought and demanded a
change for his peak hola that's all you
don't polo he was defeated though bueno
hay siempre well if you always have
winners and losers and the struggle but
other battle you never leaves but is the
battle give me topia LOL autopia
in truth it's not God do and is utopia
the politicians need to worry about its
ordinary Spanish people and their
reality the die is no cast for a full
Spanish bailout and the conditions
attached will bring drastic changes to
the way people live and their concern is
obvious they are delicate somebody had
to do something we should have more
gardius to should be more like him under
the sea is a beautiful place and we
can't go on this way with more and more
unemployment and hunger this region has
so much in his favor but we are becoming
increasingly poor probably not a
pedometer I don't respect his ideas but
I do respect him because he's a leader
and you've got to respect that and
political leadership has been the
problem Spanish politicians know how to
lead an austerity drive that will bite
into the incomes of Corvo ters and in
places like this as regional budgets are
slashed into the soul of local identity
spain's strategic problems can't be
sidestepped anymore